In this lecture, we are going to learn how you can convert a scripted pipeline.
Jenkins file to a declarative pipeline.
Jenkins File Declarative pipeline is relatively new concept.
So in real world projects, you might have some Jenkins file, which is in scripted pipeline, and when
you need to convert them, you don't need to refactor everything.
I'm going to show you the easy and effective way for this hands on example.
I'm going to build and push container image artifacts, programs and the example.
So please make sure you watch that lecture before watching this one.
With that being said, let's jump into the lecture.
So at this point, we have this push docker image folder where we have the application program in API,
Docker file requirements, dot text.
Like I said, watch the previous lecture building and pushing container image to go over those files.
So we have the Jenkins files that creates the container image and pushes to the Docker hub.
But let's say you are working in a little bit older project and you have a scripted pipeline to build
and push the content image.
So those artifacts are within the scripted to pipeline folder.
So the scripted Jenkins file is the scripted Jenkins file and the converted one is in pipeline.
But let's open this files in Visual Studio code.
So on the left we have the declarative pipeline to build and push the container image that we already
know on the right is the scripted pipeline.
So on the top we have this environmental section which is grabbing the credentials from the Jenkins
credential with the ID Docker hub, and then it's cloning the repository, building the image, logging
into Docker hub and then pushing the Docker container image.
More importantly, it is using Linux commands, Docker build, Docker logging and Docker push to do
all this.
Now let's say you don't have this Jenkins file on the left.
Your project is a little older and all you have is the file on the right, which is a script Jenkins
file.
You could tell it is a scripted file because there is no pipeline section.
That is this node section.
We have stage and there is no steps.
And you could see all these groovy scripts in it, such as app equal to Docker that build Docker that
with registry, it's not using the Linux commands.
And your project manager says, Hey, can you convert this script to Jenkins file to declare the pipeline
so we can restart it from particular stage and some other advantages?
So it will be very tedious to convert the file from the right to the file on the left if you did not
have the file on the left, because then for this building image you need to search what command to
put in, what plugin you need, what things you need to run and etc..
So to convert it easily, you can use the script section of declarative pipeline.
So using the script section you can use groovy script commands, so let's go over it.
So on the right we are doing clone repositories.
This one stays the same.
Just check out the CM then build image.
Instead of converting it to a linux command which is Docker built, you can just copy the exact same
thing and paste it inside the script section.
And again, this project Docker ID is my Docker hub user ID Jenkins test is the repository name and
all my application program.
Docker file is within this subfolder push docker image in my GitHub repository.
So you have to give the path.
If everything is under the root, you don't need to give this parameter.
You can just ignore this, you can delete this part.
And then for the Docker push, note that I am not grabbing any credentials from GitHub using environment
section.
If we are using width registry, it supports fetching the user ID and password directly in this parameter
itself.
So you have to pass the ID where the Docker hub is already password is saved in Jenkins credentials,
you have to give the URL for the Docker hub and then the command is apt push along with the tag.
I'm going to use environment dot build, underscore number.
So this is a standard environment variable.
It is going to grab the build number for the Jenkins job.
All right.
Now that we understand the Jenkins file, let's jump into the Jenkins console and create the Jenkins
job.
All right.
I'm in my trusty Jenkins console.
Click New Item.
I'll give the name scripted to Pipeline, even though technically I should give scripted to declarative.
But Declarative Pipeline also called US Pipeline Script.
I mean, it's a little bit confusing, but hey, that's on Jenkins.
All right, click pipe.
Line.
Click.
Okay.
Scroll down.
Pipeline script.
Pipeline script from ICM, click get give the repository URL for the repository.
This is a private repository.
Select GitHub user password.
Now the script path is where our Jenkins file is.
So this is under this folder scripted underscore to underscore pipeline and then pipeline underscore
Jenkins file.
So let's go back to the Jenkins job and the script path will be like this.
Also, you need to change the master to Main.
Okay, I wish Jenkins change this by now because all the new GitHub repository is made.
All right, click Save.
And also my Docker hub repository is empty.
Let's go back to the job and then build now.
All right.
It's completed successfully.
Let's check out the console output.
So it cloned the git repository and then it is starting the build step.
Remember, we put this under echo command and it is building the Docker image.
So you could see even though we put a Docker dot built as a groovy syntax, but under the hood it is
actually running the Unix docker build dash DT Command.
So if you want in the second phase, you can convert the script section to directly Linux commands.
And then the next step is Docker push.
So it's going to grab the credentials and then do app push.
So if we go back again, it's going to convert those into the Linux commands under the hood.
So it ran Docker logging, logging succeeded and then it does a Docker tag and then Docker push the
registry.
If we go back to my Docker hub and then refresh the page.
Here we go.
We have the darker continent image.
All right.
So the important part is if you have a scripted pipeline like on the right and you want to create a
declarative pipeline, you can copy whatever is in there using the script section.
And once you run it, it is going to give you the Linux command.
And if you change it directly to those Linux commands, you could do that as well.
All right, folks, that's it for this one.
I'll see you guys and girls in the next lecture.